Hey, guys, what's up?
This is American, and I welcome you to another tutorial on discourse on Ruby.
And in this tutorial, we will start on with this new section and we will cover the topic Ruby Blocks.
So Ruby Goldblatt's also called as closures in other languages are definitely one of the coolest feature
of Ruby.
And are the chunks of code between races are between the do and that you can associate with method in
location almost as if they were parameters.
A ruby block is a way of grouping statements and may appear only in the source adjacent to a method
called The Block is right in starting on the same line as the method called lost parameter or the closing
parenthesis of the parameter list.
The code in the block is not executed at the time it is encountered.
Instead, Ruby remembers the context in which the block appeared.
And then Ruby enter is the method.
The Ruby standard is to use braces for a single line logs and the do end for multiple line blocks.
Keep in mind that the precise syntax has a higher precedence than the do and syntax braces have a higher
precedence.
DO has a lower precedence if the method invocation has parameters that are not included in parentheses,
the breasts form of a block with bind to the last parameter, not to the overall invocation, the do
form will bind to the invocation.
Matt says that only that any method can be called with a block as an implicit argument.
Instead, the method inside the method you can call the block using the keyword and a value.
Also, as you will soon learn that logs can have their own arguments as well.
There are many methods in Ruby that iterate over a range of values.
Most of these iterators are written in such a way as to be able to take a code block as part of their
colleagues index.
The method can then yield the control to the code block, doing execution as many times as it is necessary
for the iteration to get completed.
Now, talking about the Ruby GQ, what what does she mean in Ruby now Jill is a ruby key word that calls
a block when you use it.
It's how method uses blocks.
When you use a key word, the code inside the block will run and do its work, just like when you call
a regular Ruby method.
So how all this is going to be done, how Ruby blocks are going to be initialized, how the key word
is going to get the block executed.
Let's see some examples for that.
So I will move on to Adam.
So as I told you, that locks in Ruby can be initialized in two ways if you have a single and then you
can all just write in this curly brackets and in this you can just write that single line.
You want to get executed for that block.
And if you have a multiline longer than what you can do is that you can just use the do and is going
to be generated by default and you can just write in the multiple lines right over here and put a single
line.
You can just write a single line right away.
So these are basically the two ways in which you can initialize blocks in Ruby.
So, for example, let's say you have a blog that says Put.
Hello, the simplest of all, and now you want to get this block executed so you can just associate
it with a function and that function is going to get this block executed.
So, for example, if you just move it down and let's say we have a function, let's say X.
And in this function, I just write in hello.
I just write and we'll do a hill and we have got this blog in which we have got Botelho a hell of a
just right and a hill, and we will call this function right from here.
And we have associated this blog right up with this function call.
So if you just run this code, you can see that only the block of the code inside the function gets
executed.
That is what and this overhead does not get executed.
Now, to execute this statement.
Right.
Well, how would you have to do that?
You have to use the keyword that is provided to you by Ruby.
So all you have to do is that you have to write in Ruby, run this code and you can see that you got
hello, because whenever the keyword is called, the execution of the function is stopped and checks
for any kind of log that is associated with that function call.
So it has a blog associated right here with this function called So it's get so it gets to that block
at any kind of statements in that.
In this case, we have got this curly brackets, which means that this is going to be a single line.
So it prints whatever it is written out here.
It executed and after that it went back to where the word was called.
And after that, the number of lines in the function are going to get executed sequentially.
So that's how basically you can just use the blocks and associated with functions and just run them
using the key word.
Now, there can be scenarios in which the function has certain arguments.
Let's say it is receiving an argument.
It will have no need to worry.
All you have to do is just pass in that argument and it is not going to affect this block right over
here.
The block is going to get executed in the very same fashion as it does.
As you can see that you just printed out this for us, whatever was in the block.
So it doesn't matter if a method has any kind of parameters are not.
Now, a method can invoke an associated block one or more time using the key word has any method that
wants to take a block as a parameter can use the Hilcorp to execute the block at any instance of time.
So, for example, we have, let's say, this very same function.
All we have to do is to just modify this so that things look much in the same way as things are getting
printed.
So we are going to just write inputs.
Inside the block.
And.
You can just ride in bullets inside a block over here again.
And as I told you that, you can just call in this world multiple times from a single function, so
we'll just write in you, Jill, and you'll go ahead and just call you up to date as well.
And what we can do that just remove these arguments for now, we don't need them anymore.
So in here, we are going to write in.
Or you can just ride in inside the block.
So we are going to not write an insider blog about how we are going to write it inside the function
of a hill, because we are not inside the blog and here we are inside the function of a hill.
And when this statement is executed, we want inside the blog to get executed.
So just run it.
And as you can see, that the first line is going to get executed when the yield keyword is called.
It just discontinues the execution of this function as it moves on to the blog, execute the line of
code of this block.
As you can see inside the blog, inside the blog, inside the blog, get executed three times because
we have three statements over.
Well, after that, the function execution continues at print out this line that is put inside the function,
as you can see.
And after that, it again sees a Uachtaráin is going to stop the execution of the function.
Again, moving to the blog, Brandauer inside the function come back and after that it can see that
it has just ended as it moved on to this.
The control moves here.
And after that we have got no lines.
So the output just stops and you can see that this output is generated, generated on your eternal hell.
So to summarize this, if you provide a good blog when you call a method, then inside the method,
you can give control to that code block, suspend the execution of the function of the method, execute
the code inside the block and return the control to the method body right up to the call to the, you
know, code block is parsed.
And Jill is and Ruby is going to raise an exception message and how that is going to be, for example,
if you don't have any kind of logo here.
And let's just limit this to a single unit statement that will help.
All right.
Good enough.
So down here, you can see that we have not associated any kind of block with this function.
But inside the function we are calling this, you'll run this and it is going to generate a message
that is going to say no log given and you score.
So that is called as the local jump arrow, because what you'll do is that it jumps from inside the
function to whatever block is associated with the function.
So that's why it is called as the local jump ever.
Now, for example, you have, let's say, the multiline block.
So for that you have to use the two.
And so we will just write and do press enter and there's going to be generated itself.
And in here you can just write inputs.
Inside the blog.
And you can just call Angelo Helgason.
And down here, you can just write in one more line over here as well, Put's.
Still inside the block.
All right, so just run this code and as you can see, that you've got inside the function inside,
but after that, this is going to get cold.
So it is going to print out inside the block and then still inside the block.
And after that, it is going to return the execution to the function.
It is going to put put in, put inside the block, as you can see inside the function.
Sorry.
And after that, it is going to again call the word and it is again going to get these two lines printed
because we have a statement over here and over here.
We have the multiline dogs using the do and statements.
So we've got inside the block and still inside the block in sequence.
So that's how you can have the multiline block as well as you have seen that when you have no kind of
lock and you use the key, well, then the jump error message is going to get generated.
Now, you can also provide parameters to the call to you.
This will be passed to the block.
Within the block, you list the names of the argument to receive the parameter between vertical bars.
So if we just take a very simple example of that into account, what you can just simply do is that
you can pass in two numbers to a block from the Milky Way and you can just add these two numbers together.
So we will just remove these from here.
We just went right and put inside the function and downhill.
What we are going to do is I'll just use the single line statement.
I just let it be multiline state mental health.
I'll just use a single line.
So in downhill, what we are going to write in, we are going to write in this vertical bars of a hill
and these are what are going to receive.
So this is basically going to be the call of a function, because when you call a function, you know
that this is the calling card and this is what is basically called.
So in here, this is basically going to be the calling card and this block is whatever is going to get
called.
So from here, we are going to pass in the parameter, let's say two and three are the parameters.
So down here, we are going to write in two numbers.
So that are going to be, let's say.
A couple maybe so these are the two numbers that are going to be received into this block and down here,
what we are going to seem to be right and we are going to write in votes.
It must be so the simplest example of all, run this and as you can see, that it is printed up inside
the function and up to that Gentoo three is here.
It calls this blog.
It passed into two parameters to this, and B and B now has some values.
You can just add these two numbers.
And as you can see that you have got this five over here, which means that the arguments were passing.
They were storing these two numbers because adding them generated five right here will help.
Now, you can also have these parameters in the multiline, so you can just try and do and over here.
And you can have these bars again, you can just write in a comma Blackhill and down here you can just
write and put a plus.
We run this code and it is again going to generate the same output.
So this is how basically you can pass in parameters to a single line block and also do a multiple line
log that is initialized with the do end statement.
Now, one thing you might have noticed over here that the yield keyword has and the block combined has
almost all the properties of a function.
You know, you can just call in using the keyword and you can also postern parameters as you do with
functions.
There is one more property that the yield keyword has very same like the methods that are called block
and also return value.
And the return value is going to be the value of the last expression evaluated in the code block.
Now this return value is made available inside the block.
It comes through as the return value of the yield block given it returns true if the function is possible,
a block which can be yielded.
So the block given is basically going to be used over here.
And that is also Billancourt.
So it is going to return to the function espoused with a block which can be yielded as it is going to
generate.
It is simply going to run the statement, if you specify this with a condition.
So let's just try a simple example of that as well.
So we will just remove this from here.
And instead of that error message that was generated, we can just write in any condition to avoid that
error message as well as to see if a value is returned from the key.
So we are going to try and block underscore, given a question mark.
What we are going to do is that we are going to write in yield.
If Locke is given if the blog is not given, then what we are going to do is that we are going to write
inputs.
Knoblock.
All right, so down here, what we are going to do is that we are going to end this if you are, because
it is going to generate EDAR, we are going to remove this from hell.
You are going to call it the function X, and we are not going to specify any kind of block away.
I run this and as you can see that it has retained a value that is Knoblock because it checks for the
block.
The block was not there.
It does not execute this statement over here, no error message and it returned the last evaluated expression
that was no lock.
Now, for example, if you have something of a for example, you've got Foote's halo here, Ronda's,
and you can see that it is generated now.
Hello.
This Ohare is not executed because this O'Haire was true, because this is a building keyword that especially
used to check if you have got any kind of block associated with the function in which you're using this
key word block given.
So we're using this block given in this X function and we have associated a block with this function
X, so this over here is going to return.
True.
And this is going to get executed.
In the previous case when this was not present, this was false over here.
This does not get executed and this was executed in Knoblock was printed.
But in this case we have got a block.
So that's why Halo is going to get printed over here.
Similarly, you can do it for the do what you can do it with the due end in which you have multiple
lines as well.
Now, one more concept you need to learn from.
This tutorial is about the low block variables.
So let us see what happens in when a variable outside a block is X and a block barometer's is also named
as X..
So up here, what we are going to do is that we are going to let's say let's just remove this from here
completely and let's just start fresh.
So, for example, if you have a variable X equal to 10.
And then you just write in five dot dimes do, and you just initialize a blog with a keyword that is
basically.
And inside this, what you're going to read input's.
Value of X.
Inside is and you are going to use the interpellation concept for that, so you're going to just try
and Axler here.
And what you're going to do is that you're going to just end this right over here and down here, you
are going to just print out the value for X and see what happens, because you have used the value,
you use the same variable that is X inside a block as well as outside the block.
So let's see what it's going to get printed outside.
We're going to adjust right.
And value of.
X outside is interpellation and just write an X or help run this code, and as you can see that the
value of X right over here start from zero.
It incremented in every counted, it executed five times and from the value watching from zero to four,
as you can see right over here.
Down here, the line which we have printed outside this time function outside the DUEN, which means
outside the block, you have got this value of X to be done, which means that it has executed this
line of will help.
So you have basically observed that Up to the Block has executed X, outside the block is the original
X, hence the block parameter X was local to the block.
So the main purpose here was that when you initialize a same variable outside the block and also use
it inside the block, then this this variable over here is basically local to this block over here,
because down here, when you try to print it out, it is not going to get executed because if you just
remove it from it, it is going to generate an error message because it says that you got no kind of
parameter.
That's because it says that.
Undefined local variable or method named as X, but if you have this oakhill around this, you are going
to get this value because this value is just terminated when this functions.
And outside this doing this X does not exist, but this X does exist.
So that's why then was printed right over help.
Now, what if you want to know the final value of whatever the wherever this loop has ended?
So what you can do over here is that you can use some other variables other than X down here inside
this block.
What you can do is that you can just write an X equal to Y, and now what you can simply do is you can
write inputs and outputs value effects inside its X and down here you can use the very same statement
that is this random code.
And as you can see that you've got zero one, two, three, four over here and now you have got value
of X outside.
As for as I told you that this is basically local to this whatever this is a here.
But down here you can see that you have got this value J.
Now the reason behind this is that you have got this variable X equal to this by now for the first iteration.
You know that the value of X sorry, the value of fire is zero for the second iteration.
It is going to be one for the third.
It is going to be two, then three, then for the final address.
And it is going to force for the final attrition.
The value of X is going to get changed to this Y that that is going to be for our heads.
So if you just write in.
Well, it's.
Value of X.
Outside.
Before.
The blog.
And you can just ride position, interpellation a hill and just ride, and Zawahiri underscored, and
that is going to be 10.
But once the blog is executed, since you have initialized the value of X to Y.
So for the last eight and that is for because every time the value of X is going to get updated when
this lupe's.
Get outraged for the first time, it is going to change the value of X from ten to zero, then in the
next from zero to one, then from one to two, then from two to three, then from three to four.
Finally, and down here, when you just write in value of X outside as it is going to give you four
as the output since X is not a block parameter, here are the variable, X is the same inside and outside
the block.
So if you talk about droopy one point nine and onwards, the blocks introduced their own scope for the
block parameters only.
So for that, if you just see one more example, just remove this first.
And let's say we just specify a call in over here and X right over here and we will have this code,
the remaining as the same order to just remove this from here.
We don't need it anymore.
Just run it.
And you can see that you have still got this done over here.
Now, in this about a block, a new feature has been introduced that is known as the block.
Local variable inside the block, local variable speed, a block from manipulating variables outside
of its scope.
This prevent a block from unintentionally clobbering any variables outside its scope.
If you don't want to clobber variables, use the block local variables for the variables your block
creates.
The syntax for a block local variable is very simple, but a semicolon after the normal block variable
list.
Which is why in this case you have specify a colon, you have specified the variable you don't want
to clobber outside.
So we don't want this value of X to get changed because in the previous case when we did not use this
concept Dronett, you can see that the value of X has been changed.
So we don't want the global values to get changed due to some kind of blocks you don't want.
We want that to be specific to that block only we don't want any kind of block local variable to clobber
any kind of value that is outside the block.
So for that you have to use this around this you can see that now the value of X is the very same.
It has not affected the value of the original X.
So that was basically the concept of the block variables in Ruby Blocks.
Now, moving towards the last concept we are going to cover in this tutorial is what is the basically
difference between implicit and explicit blocks, not blocks can be both explicit and implicit.
Explicit means that you give it a name in your parameter unless you can pass an explicit block to another
method or save it into a variable to use later.
Now, whatever we have been doing so far was basically related to the implicit blocks.
Now we will use the explicit block, so we will just remove this from here.
We will initialize an explicit underscore block Abargil.
And down here, what we are going to do is that we are going to try and block dot com.
It is the very same as the keyword because in implicit block, you have to use Whewell and downhere
you have to write and block dot com just and this.
And downhere, what you can do is that you can just write an explicit lock, which is this.
And in here you can associate a block with this function.
And that function is let's say you're going to have Put's.
Explicit.
Block.
It's called.
Let's just move it a bit further so that everything is visible.
Now, one more thing you need to understand over here is that how this key word here is going to get.
So if you just run the school, you can simply see that you've got an error because it says you have
got an undefined local variable or method named Locke, which is this variable right away here, because
it does not know what is this variable.
So what you can do here is that down here you can just write in the address sign and you can just write
and block now run it.
And now it is going to run perfectly because this is what is going to tell it that we want to call in
an explicit block.
So when this explicit blog is called.
We want to refer to a location that where this call is going to get made and this location basically
points towards the blog that is associated with this explicit function right over here.
So this was the explicit function.
This was the explicit function call, and this was the blog that was associated with the explicit function
call.
So for that, you have to write in the address to where from where this function has been called and
where the block is basically.
So this variable basically points to the address of wherever this associated block of this explosive
function is stored.
So when you write and block and you write in the call function with that block variable, you are going
to just get this stuff over here executed.
You can have other statements like bots.
Hello, if you just run it, you can see that you have got explicit blog escarole, you can just see
hello.
And if you have statements above that, let's say puts.
World over here on this and you can see that it is sprinting, well, then it is calling the function
and before it gets this executed, it is going to first go into this explicit block away here and it
is going to execute any kind of block that is associated with this explicit function.
So it executes this.
It returned back the execution of control.
It performed the sequential order execution, and it executed Botelho.
Hell was printed and that's explicit.
Block was also executed.
Now you can have this as the multiline by using the duende as well in the very same way you do with
the implicit functions.
So that was basically what was the difference between explicit block and implicit block and implicit
block?
You have to use the key word and in the implicit block you have to use the call function and you have
to also point a reference towards the location where that explicit block has been stored.
So I hope you have understood the concept of blocks and some very interesting and advanced concepts
that are also associated with blocks in Ruby.
So I guess that's it with this tutorial.
I know it was a lengthy tutorial, but I have tried my best to cover it in the simplest way possible,
so I hope you have understood that.
So I guess that's it with this tutorial.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next tutorial.